---
layout: page
title: Running Oracle XE 11 in a Docker container on Linux
description: Running Oracle XE 11 in a Docker container on Linux
keywords: Oracle database, Docker, XE
permalink: /docker/xe/
---

<br/>

# Running Oracle XE 11 in a Docker container on Linux

<br/>

**Doing:**

01.02.2019 (Updated without thorough checking. If something doesn't work, check the <a href="https://github.com/wnameless/docker-oracle-xe-11g">instructions</a> from the author or ask a question in Telegram).

If you work on Linux, you can start the database with a couple of commands. Docker also works on Windows, but the advantages are not as obvious there because you have to use VirtualBox or VmWare as an intermediate virtualization layer.

Docker is probably the best solution when you need to quickly and easily start a database for some test purposes. (Especially if you work on Linux).

So.

The Oracle database free version can be started in a container with a couple of commands. (You can even use one command, doesn't matter.)

Docker must be installed.  
For example, this can be done in:

**Ubuntu-like distributions:**

<a href="//gitops.ru/tools/containers/docker/setup/ubuntu/">link</a>

**CentOS 7.3-like distributions:**

<a href="//gitops.ru/tools/containers/docker/setup/centos/7/">link</a>

<br/>

Information about the prepared container can be viewed <a href="https://github.com/wnameless/docker-oracle-xe-11g">here</a> (You don't have to look and can start running it right away):

<br/>

    -- download/update the image to your computer
    $ docker pull wnameless/oracle-xe-11g

    -- create and run a container based on the downloaded image (probably makes sense to also set a container name)
    $ docker run -d --shm-size=2g -p 1521:1521 -p 8080:8080 wnameless/oracle-xe-11g

<br/>

All that remains is to connect, for example, as I did using the free database tool - SQLDeveloper, which can be downloaded from the oracle website.

<br/>

**Connection parameters:**

    hostname: localhost
    port: 1521
    sid: xe
    username: system
    password: oracle

    username: sys
    password: oracle

<br/>

**Connect to Oracle Application Express web management console**

    url: http://localhost:8080/apex
    workspace: internal
    user: admin
    password: oracle

<br/>

**Don't forget to change the password, warns the container creator**

You can change the password with the command:

    alter user system identified by NewPassword;

<br/>

Production Oracle databases in Docker containers already exist. I can't say anything about their usage.
